Add a bonsai guide page to the SLEAP website (#1785)
talmolab/sleap: docs/guides/bonsai.md

(bonsai)=

# Using Bonsai with SLEAP

Bonsai is a visual language for reactive programming and currently supports SLEAP models.

> **Exporting a SLEAP trained model:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Exporting a SLEAP trained model
```

> **Exporting a SLEAP trained model:**
> 
> :::{note}
> Currently Bonsai supports only single instance, top-down and top-down-id SLEAP models.
> :::

Reviewer: Flip flop
```suggestion
:::{note}
Currently Bonsai supports only single instance, top-down and top-down-id SLEAP models.
:::

**Exporting a SLEAP trained model:**
```

> In order to import the trained model into Bonsai, we need to export the model using the {code}`sleap-export` cli command to convert the trained model to a Protocol buffer(.pb) format. For example, for the top-down-id model, the command is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we can import a trained model into Bonsai, we need to use the {code}`sleap-export` command to convert the model to a format supported by Bonsai. For example, for the top-down-id model, the command is as follows:
```

```
sleap-export -m centroid_model_folder_path -m top_down_id_model_folder_path exported_model
```

> (for further details please refer {ref}`sleap-export` docs for more details.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Please refer to  the {ref}`sleap-export` docs for more details on using the command.
```

> This will generate the necessary `.pb` file and other information files to be used in Bonsai in the `exported_model` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate the necessary `.pb` file and other information files required by Bonsai. In this example, these files were saved to the specified `exported_model` folder.
```

> **Installing Bonsai and necessary packages:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installing Bonsai and necessary packages
```

> - Install bonsai by following the instructions provided in their [installation page](https://bonsai-rx.org/docs/articles/installation.html). 
> 
> - Add the necessary packages including the `Bonsai.SLEAP` and `Bonsai.SLEAP.Design` packages for SLEAP to run with Bonsai and to access the SLEAP-Bonsai modules. For more information on other dependency installations, please refer to the official [bonsai sleap documentation](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/sleap?tab=readme-ov-file#bonsai---sleap).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install Bonsai. See the [Bonsai installation instructions](https://bonsai-rx.org/docs/articles/installation.html). 

2. Download the necessary packages for Bonsai to run with SLEAP. See the official [Bonsai SLEAP documentation](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/sleap?tab=readme-ov-file#bonsai---sleap) for more information.
```

> **Using Bonsai SLEAP modules:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Bonsai SLEAP modules
```

> Once you have Bonsai installed with the required packages, you should be able to open the bonsai application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have Bonsai installed with the required packages, you should be able to open the Bonsai application. 
```

- The workflow must have an source module `FileCapture` which can be found in the toolbox search in the workflow editor. Provide the path to the video that was used to train the SLEAP model in the `FileName` field of the module.

> - For the top-down model,
>     - To predict the centroids, add the `PredictCentroid` module and provide the path to the training config JSON file for the centroid model in the `ModelFileName` field and the path to the `exported_model` folder containing the `.pb` file in the `TrainingConfig` field of the module.
>     - To predict the instances, add the `PredictPoses` module and provide the path to the training config JSON file for the centered instance model in the `ModelFileName` field and the path to the `exported_model` folder containing the `.pb` file in the `TrainingConfig` field of the module.

Reviewer: Instead of bullets, lets make each of these sections. Also maybe we can split up the long bullets into multiple sentences.
```suggestion
#### Top-down model
The top-down model requires both the `PredictCentroid` and the `PredictPoses` modules.

The `PredictCentroid` module will predict the centroids of detections. There are two fields inside the `PredictCentroid` module: the `ModelFileName` field and the `TrainingConfig` field. The `ModelFileName` field expects the path to the training config JSON file for the centroid model. The `TrainingConfig` field expects the path to the `exported_model` folder (which contains the exported `.pb` file).

The `PredictPoses` module will predict the instances of detections. Similar to the `PredictCentroid` module, there are two fields inside the `PredictPoses` module: the `ModelFileName` field and the `TrainingConfig` field. The `ModelFileName` field expects the path to the training config JSON file for the centered instance model. The `TrainingConfig` field expects the path to the `exported_model` folder (which contains the exported `.pb` file).
```

(bonsai)=

# Using Bonsai with SLEAP

Bonsai is a visual language for reactive programming and currently supports SLEAP models.

:::{note}
Currently Bonsai supports only single instance, top-down and top-down-id SLEAP models.
:::

> ### Exporting a SLEAP trained model:

Reviewer: Remove the ":"
```suggestion
### Exporting a SLEAP trained model
```

> Before we can import a trained model into Bonsai, we need to use the {code}`sleap-export` command to convert the model to a format supported by Bonsai. For example, for the top-down-id model, the command is as follows:

Reviewer: "For example, for the top-down-id model" is a bit weird sounding

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> sleap-export -m centroid_model_folder_path -m top_down_id_model_folder_path exported_model

Reviewer: emulate the path for paths:
```suggestion
sleap-export -m centroid/model/folder/path -m top_down_id/model/folder/path exported_model
```

```

Please refer to the {ref}`sleap-export` docs for more details on using the command.

This will generate the necessary `.pb` file and other information files required by Bonsai. In this example, these files were saved to the specified `exported_model` folder.

### Installing Bonsai and necessary packages:

1. Install Bonsai. See the [Bonsai installation instructions](https://bonsai-rx.org/docs/articles/installation.html). 

2. Download and add the necessary packages for Bonsai to run with SLEAP. See the official [Bonsai SLEAP documentation](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/sleap?tab=readme-ov-file#bonsai---sleap) for more information.

### Using Bonsai SLEAP modules:

Once you have Bonsai installed with the required packages, you should be able to open the Bonsai application.  

> - The workflow must have an source module `FileCapture` which can be found in the toolbox search in the workflow editor. Provide the path to the video that was used to train the SLEAP model in the `FileName` field of the module.

Reviewer: Make into paragraph

> - The workflow must have an source module `FileCapture` which can be found in the toolbox search in the workflow editor. Provide the path to the video that was used to train the SLEAP model in the `FileName` field of the module.

Reviewer: Add screenshots of what `FileCapture` is and how to add it

> #### Top-down model:

Reviewer: Remove the ":"
```suggestion
#### Top-down model
```

The top-down model requires both the `PredictCentroid` and the `PredictPoses` modules.

> The `PredictCentroid` module will predict the centroids of detections. There are two fields inside the `PredictCentroid` module: the `ModelFileName` field and the `TrainingConfig` field. The `TrainingConfig` field expects the path to the training config JSON file for the centroid model. The `ModelFileName` field expects the path to the `exported_model` folder (which contains the exported `.pb` file).

Reviewer: Add screenshots of what PredictCentroid is and how to add it

> The `PredictPoses` module will predict the instances of detections. Similar to the `PredictCentroid` module, there are two fields inside the `PredictPoses` module: the `ModelFileName` field and the `TrainingConfig` field. The `TrainingConfig` field expects the path to the training config JSON file for the centered instance model. The `ModelFileName` field expects the path to the `exported_model` folder (which contains the exported `.pb` file).

Reviewer: Add screenshots of what PredictPoses is and how to add it

#### Top-Down-ID model:
The `PredictPoseIdentities` module will predict the instances with identities. This module has two fields: the `ModelFileName` field and the `TrainingConfig` field. The `TrainingConfig` field expects the path to the training config JSON file for the top-down-id model. The `ModelFileName` field expects the path to the `exported_model` folder (which contains the exported `.pb` file).

#### Single instance model:
The `PredictSinglePose` module will predict the poses for single instance models. This module also has two fields: the `ModelFileName` field and the `TrainingConfig` field. The `TrainingConfig` field expects the path to the training config JSON file for the single instance model. The `ModelFileName` field expects the path to the `exported_model` folder (which contains the exported `.pb` file).

The workflow in Bonsai will look something like the following:

![Bonsai.SLEAP workflow](../_static/bonsai-workflow.jpg)

> - Once you have the basic workflow for Bonsai.SLEAP created and running successfully, you can add more modules to analyze and visualize the results in Bonsai.

Reviewer: remove bullet
